FINAL
Minutes of Open Session
Legislative Council Meeting
Wednesday, October 4, 2023 • 9:30 a.m.
Committee Room 403 • State Capitol Building
100 S. Capitol Avenue • Lansing, Michigan
ATTENDANCE
Present: Absent/Excused:
Senate Majority Leader Winnie Brinks, Chair Representative Bryan Posthumus
Speaker of the House Joe Tate, Alternate Chair Senator Roger Victory
Representative Abraham Aiyash
Republican Leader Mall Hall
Senator Edward McBroom
Senator Sean McCann
Senator Jeremy Moss
Representative Laurie Pohutsky
Senator Sam Singh
Representative Angela Witwer
ITEMS I and II. Call to Order and Roll Call
Pursuant to Legislative Council Rule Chapter 1, Rule 2, Senate Majority Leader Brinks called the meeting to
order at 9:32 a.m. and asked the clerk to call the roll. A quorum was present. Senate Majority Leader Brinks
moved to excuse absent members. There was no objection. The motion prevailed by unanimous
consent.
ITEM III. Election of Officers
a. Chair
Speaker Tate nominated Senate Majority Leader Brinks be Chair of the Legislative Council for 2023.
Senate Majority Leader Brinks asked if there were any other nominations. There were no other nominations.
Senate Majority Leader Brinks declared that, pursuant to Legislative Council Rule, Chapter 1, Rule 4,
she will be Chair of the Legislative Council for 2023.
b. Alternate Chair
Chair Brinks nominated Speaker Tate to be Alternate Chair of the Legislative Council for 2023. The
Chair asked if there were any other nominations. There were no other nominations. Chair Brinks declared
that, pursuant to Legislative Council Rule, Chapter 1, Rule 4, Speaker Tate will be Alternate Chair of
the Legislative Council for 2023.
ITEM IV. Approval of the Proposed Minutes of the September 29, 2021 Legislative Council Meeting
The Chair directed the members’ attention to the proposed minutes of the September 29, 2021 Legislative
Council meeting included in the members' information packet. Senator McBroom moved to adopt the
minutes of the September 29, 2021 Legislative Council meeting as proposed. There was no further
discussion. The motion prevailed by unanimous consent.
ITEM V. Approval of Appointment to Michigan Law Revision Commission – Lucius Vassar
The Chair reported that Mr. Lucius Vassar has expressed an interest in serving on the Commission as Vice
Chair to succeed Mr. Anthony Derezinski. The Chair noted that Mr. Vassar’s resume and background
information is in the meeting documents. Senator Moss moved to appoint Lucius Vassar to the Michigan
Law Revision Commission for a 4-year term that expires on October 31, 2027. There was no further
discussion. The motion prevailed by an affirmative vote of a majority of the members appointed to and
serving on the Council, voting as follows:
Yeas—10 Senate Majority Leader Brinks Speaker Tate
Senator Edward McBroom Representative Abraham Aiyash
Senator Sean McCann Republican Leader Matt Hall
Senator Jeremy Moss Representative Laurie Pohutsky
Senator Sam Singh Representative Angela Witwer
Nays—0
Final October 4, 2023 Legislative Council Meeting Minutes
Page 2
Approval of Appointment to Michigan Law Revision Commission – Trent Collier
The Chair reported that Mr. Trent Collier has expressed an interest in serving on the Commission. The Chair
noted that Mr. Collier’s resume and background information is in the meeting documents. Senator Aiyash
moved to appoint Trent Collier to the Michigan Law Revision Commission for a 4-year term that expires
on October 31, 2027. There was no further discussion. The motion prevailed by an affirmative vote of a
majority of the members appointed to and serving on the Council, voting as follows:
Yeas—10 Senate Majority Leader Brinks Speaker Tate
Senator Edward McBroom Representative Abraham Aiyash
Senator Sean McCann Republican Leader Matt Hall
Senator Jeremy Moss Representative Laurie Pohutsky
Senator Sam Singh Representative Angela Witwer
Nays—0
ITEM VI. Selection of a Legislative Representative on the Michigan State Council for Interstate
Juvenile Supervision
The Chair reported the selection of Senator Jeff Irwin to serve as the legislative representative on the Michigan
State Council for Interstate Juvenile Supervision to serve the remainder term ending on December 31, 2024.
Senator McBroom moved that State Senator Jeff Irwin be selected to serve as the legislative
representative on the Michigan State Council for Interstate Juvenile Supervision for the remainder term
ending December 31, 2024. There was no further discussion. The motion prevailed by an affirmative vote
of a majority of the members appointed to and serving on the Council, voting as follows:
Yeas—10 Senate Majority Leader Brinks Speaker Tate
Senator Edward McBroom Representative Abraham Aiyash
Senator Sean McCann Republican Leader Matt Hall
Senator Jeremy Moss Representative Laurie Pohutsky
Senator Sam Singh Representative Angela Witwer
Nays—0
ITEM VII. Selection of a Legislative Representative on the Michigan State Council for Interstate Adult
Offender Supervision
The Chair reported the selection of Representative Amos O’Neal Irwin to serve as the legislative representative
on the Michigan State Council for Interstate Juvenile Supervision to serve the remainder term ending on
December 31, 2024. Representative Pohutsky moved that State Representative Amos O’Neal be selected
to serve as the legislative representative on the Michigan State Council for Interstate Adult Offender
Supervision for the remainder term ending December 31, 2024. There was no further discussion. The
motion prevailed by an affirmative vote of a majority of the members appointed to and serving on the
Council, voting as follows:
Yeas—10 Senate Majority Leader Brinks Speaker Tate
Senator Edward McBroom Representative Abraham Aiyash
Senator Sean McCann Republican Leader Matt Hall
Senator Jeremy Moss Representative Laurie Pohutsky
Senator Sam Singh Representative Angela Witwer
Nays—0
ITEM VIII. Proposed Legislative Council Rule Change: Chapter 1, Rule 21
The Chair reported that one change has been proposed to the Legislative Council rules to allow the Legislative
Council Administrator to make changes to personnel policies for all agencies at the approval of the Chair and
Alternate Chair. The Chair noted the legislative council rules highlighting the section in Chapter 1, Rule 21 can
be found in the meeting documents. General Counsel for the Legislative Council Administrator’s office, Shanda
Greco was present to respond to questions. Leader Hall inquired on the reason for this rule change. Ms. Greco
responded current Council Rules require approval of the entire Council for policy updates noting the last time
completed was in 2014 noting the House and Senate have updated their policies recently, this change will allow
us to align those changes for council agencies in an expedited manner. Ms. Greco noted there have been
Final October 4, 2023 Legislative Council Meeting Minutes
Page 3
temporary policy changes approved by the Chair and Alternate Chair in recent years given the emergency
changes needed during those times but policies being temporary creates uncertainty for current and future
Council agency employees. Leader Hall inquired on an example of a personnel policy change. Ms. Greco
responded in this instance the Employee Handbook citing harassment investigation procedures as well as areas
the House and Senate have recently updated to include work from home policy, leave policy, and maternity
leave policy as main examples. Senator McBroom expressed concerned on the justification for this change if
temporary powers are available. Representative McCann moved to adopt the proposed Legislative Council
rule change to amend Legislative Council Rule, Chapter 1, Rule 21 to allow the Council Administrator to
make changes to personnel policies for all agencies at the approval of the Chair and Alternate Chair
effective immediately. There was no further discussion. The motion prevailed by an affirmative vote of a
majority of the members appointed to and serving on the Council, voting as follows:
Yeas—8 Senate Majority Leader Brinks Speaker Tate
Senator Sean McCann Representative Abraham Aiyash
Senator Jeremy Moss Representative Laurie Pohutsky
Senator Sam Singh Representative Angela Witwer
Nays— 2 Senator Edward McBroom Republican Leader Hall
Proposed Rule Change: Chapter 1, Rule 21
ITEM IX. Public Participation
The Chair reported a number of individuals wishing to address the Council and due to time restrictions asked
for public comments to be limited to three minutes per person.
The Chair recognized Mr. James Gallant joining by Zoom. Mr. Gallant with the Marquette County Suicide
Prevention Coalition requested the Council hold a special meeting to investigate the Legislative Council’s
oversight functions for the Michigan Independent Citizens Redistricting Commission. During Mr. Gallant’s
comments the Chair noted the Council was unable to hear Mr. Gallant. The Chair thanked Mr. Gallant and
asked that he submit his public comment in writing citing the Council would take his comments under
advisement.
The Chair recognized Ms. Shannon Tanis joining by Zoom noting Ms. Tanis provided a document as part of
her testimony and Legislative Council members had received a copy. Ms. Tanis filed a point or order because
the September 29, 2021, meeting minutes for the Michigan Law Revision Commission public comment section
was left blank citing this was not accurate. Ms. Tanis noted that truth in accuracy for record keepers, clerks,
secretaries, and others in the field is vital. Ms. Tanis noted after conducting research this is something that
has been left to dissipate over time and has not been documented accurately. Ms. Tanis expressed concern
this inaccuracy makes her look like a liar when engaged with the body and given notice. Ms. Tanis expressed
concern that she is a witness in a murder trial and this may be used as evidence against her. Ms. Tanis noted
she will be engaging the standing committee on judiciary on probate issues noting we the people engaged a
FOIA to the City of Greenfield and uncovered they are withholding evidence on hiding a sex offender in a
nursing home because this person is related to an attorney that works for the City. Ms. Tanis noted she
afforded the body every opportunity to deal with this in private and they did not. Ms. Tanis is giving legislators
notice citing the people have suffered weaponization of every mechanism to harm the people. Ms. Tanis noted
people are calling for a state convention to address all these issues. The Chair thanked Ms. Tanis for her
comments and citing her comments will be taken under advisement.
The Chair recognized Senator McBroom. Senator McBroom noted Council Rule Chapter 1 Rule 16 under the
Duties of the Administrator subsection (l) cites meeting notices to the sent to the appropriate personnel listing
various locations including the Farnum and Roosevelt Building excluding the Cora Anderson and the Binsfeld
Building. Senator McBroom noted the locations should be updated. The Chair acknowledged and noted for
Final October 4, 2023 Legislative Council Meeting Minutes
Page 4
item to be taken up at a later time. Senator McBroom expressed interest for the Council engaging in
discussion about items the Corrections Ombudsman can be doing to enhance our understanding on what is
going at the Department of Corrections. The Chair acknowledged and expressed appreciation to Senator
McBroom on his comments.
ITEM IX. Adjournment
The Council having no further business, the Chair asked for a motion to adjourn. Senator McBroom
moved to adjourn the meeting. Without objection, the motion prevailed by unanimous consent. The
meeting was adjourned at 9:51 a.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Jennifer Dettloff, Secretary
(Minutes approved at the December 18, 2024 Legislative Council meeting.)